Greetings from the Buddhist community of Vietnam. Dear fellow practitioners,
I would like to answer a question from a
student regarding the difficulty of the subject matter.
The
question is as follows: "Dear teacher, I am a
university student, but the knowledge at
university is very different and much more difficult.
Since starting university, I haven't been as
diligent as I was in high school. I really want to
study well, pass my exams, and achieve high results,
but when I study at night, I become
lazy and just
think to myself, 'I'll wake up early tomorrow to study,' but
many subjects are too difficult. I don't know how to study
to understand them."
Dear fellow practitioners, I have already
answered this question about the habit of
procrastination. However, this question
is about the difficulty of the knowledge, which has
led to
laziness and procrastination. The student also wants
a solution, and
here I will offer it.
Her opinion is this:
Only those who thrive
in difficult situations develop,
while others only thrive in easy situations.
When faced with difficulties, they
collapse. There are many such people who have
this habit: if
things are easy, they don't develop much,
but when they encounter difficulties, they do develop. There have
been times in life when
things came my way, and I
had this strong reaction.
Yes, before I knew about Buddhism,
I looked up to the sky and thought, "Oh
God, is there anything
harder or more difficult than this?" "
Just give it to me, let me try and see how I feel."
In such suffering, I had that kind of state.
That's the point. My older sister
passed away
when she was still young. Our families lived
close together, and all her responsibilities fell
on my shoulders.
At that time, I was at the age of
growing up and had many
problems to solve,
so I encountered many obstacles.
And when I learned about Buddhism, I only
thought...  There are only "Oh my God" and "Oh my God," but "Oh
my God" is very rare
in freshwater, and "Oh my God" is called more often. So
when calling, you say, "Oh my God, if there's anything difficult, please bring it here so I can see how I overcome it." Oh, so at that time, the habit of calling like
that is precisely because of that habit. We
don't know the obstacles, but
in the face of difficulties,
we become stronger. You should also do that. You should face difficulties and rise above them, then your life will never fall into suffering. You will be the one who faces difficulties to solve them, and you will never
suffer. And you will discover yourself. You are very
good. That's what you need to change.
When I was in school,
I was rich.
After a week, there were only two days with
electricity, Tuesday and Thursday.
Only Tuesday and Thursday had electricity, the
rest of the week there was no electricity for the whole population. That's why you
needed to go to work on the day before.  During my
studies abroad, I worked
with my mother in the mornings and afternoons. If I had
afternoon classes, I had to work with my mother for a
morning as well, so my study time was
limited to late evenings.
Sometimes I had to light a lamp, but there was no desk, no
study table. I just lay
down and studied. The oil lamp I used
before was gone, so I just lay down and studied. There was no
desk to sit at. And I didn't have
the habit of not
going to sleep until I finished all my homework. I had to finish everything, even if it was past
midnight. Once I
finally went to sleep, I could relax the next morning because
I didn't have any old assignments to
do. If there was a
difficult assignment, I would study it myself, trying different
approaches. If I couldn't figure it out, I would
go to school early the next morning to ask my classmates. If
I saw someone in the class who was
better than me, I would ask them. I had
two habits every week: firstly,
I liked difficult assignments, and I had to
find a way to solve them. If I couldn't figure it out,
I would ask for help and
find out who was good at that subject.  And when
we ask about
culinary matters, everyone in the world
wants to answer what they know. Everyone wants to answer
until they reach a certain level of
competition and rivalry, a position where
people are selfish and don't answer.
But in reality, when you're in school, you
really like to answer, and I always
look for classmates who are
capable in that subject to ask them because, in
reality, we can't be good at everything.
Some subjects I'm better at,
I'll share with you, but for
more difficult subjects, I have to ask you.
We have to overcome ourselves, a
huge obstacle is our ego. So when we
ask you, we're afraid you'll think we
're stupid. Don't get into that habit. Just keep
asking until you understand. When you understand, you'll be
there. You'll be tired, but if you don't understand,
you'll get over it. In
this matter, you should create two habits for yourself:
practice and practice.
Practice what's good and
discard what's bad.  The bad thing is that when you practice, you
should think and try to think about all the
difficult subjects. You need
time to study. Don't just
grab your books and leave. Don't do that. Because if you
sit down, think,
and explore, you will find some answers.
You will understand where you are stuck.
Remember, when you read a problem, think
a lot, and you will know
where your difficulties lie. The key is where your difficulties lie. Reading a problem doesn't mean you're stuck on
everything. You
can
immediately understand a problem. If you don't understand a problem right away,
you have to find the point you don't understand, find a
point to ask about. From that point, if you understand it,
you can think more about it. When you
find another point, and within that point
you're stuck on, you
'll find another problem and ask again. This will help you break the
passive habit of saying, "If the problem is too difficult, just give it to me and
I'll copy it." If you do that, you'll
never find what you're stuck on, and
you'll never develop yourself.
Don't fall into that habit.  That's the
first thing we must ask.
Secondly, what should we ask? If we
want to be like that, we must
thoroughly investigate the matter, read carefully, and then
we will gain that. That will
create passion, and that is called
diligence in the process. List the good deeds, abandon your fickle
nature,
your procrastination. And for security, you should
practice what practice is. Praise things worthy of praise,
and you will be blessed by wisdom.
You become smarter
because you know. Eight months of
things worthy of praise, worthy people...
Yes, I'll go eight months.
Yes, secondly, and you should practice
giving. When you
give, your
merit
increases, and your mind becomes more flexible.
I like people who are selfless; their minds will be sharper. Those who are kind and compassionate
will have smarter minds. And those who are kind and
compassionate will have sharper minds. And those who are kind and
compassionate will have sharper minds.
Just keep giving and be kind.  Just
doing things with the intention of
eliminating unwholesome thoughts will
generate wisdom for you.
That's very good; it's the best way to
practice and transform your karma.
As for
spirituality, you should also practice
to dedicate merit to the beings who
hinder your progress in your
practice. In the
Ksitigarbha Sutra, the Buddha taught: "There are
demons who say this: '
If they see someone doing unwholesome things, they will
cause them to do
even more unwholesome things.' This proves that, according to the sutra, when we have
an unwholesome thought in our mind, demons follow us. So, when we do good deeds, we know how to do them and dedicate the merit to those
demons who have followed us and incited
us to do unwholesome things, causing
us to feel sluggish. We still
do meritorious deeds in our minds, but in
our spiritual hearts, we only have
one more action: dedicating the merit to the
beings who have a connection with us, praying that they may be
diligent in doing good deeds."  And the foam for
the child to be diligent in good deeds
is a way of practicing spirituality as well as
practicing with the present mind to
transform karma. I
also wish you to overcome the consequences. The
conclusion is that
when you see something difficult, you cleanse your mind of
laziness. That's how
we must conquer this karma. As
the Buddha taught, conquering oneself is the
ultimate victory. We
must enter into action as
warriors conquering
ourselves.
Sister, I wish you good studies to achieve
good results and a good career in the future.
I wish you progress in your studies.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.